---
title: "Summary of the Second Datt Hackathon"
author: ryanxcharles
date: 2016-02-29
template: article.jade
---

The greatest result of the second Datt hackathon is that we successfully built,
in just 48 hours, a working demo of a new product based on Datt, "Yours". Yours
is a content sharing application with a twist: You can invest in a piece of
content by paying the content creator, and then share in the subsequent
payments. This solves the incentive problem on both ends. First, people are
incentivized to produce good content, because they may be paid for doing so.
But even more importantly, the payments are also correctly incentivized,
because the investors may profit, potentially enormously, from investing in a
good piece of content early on.

During the hackathon, we wrote three articles: [Yours (the original
description)](/articles/2016-02-26-yours/), ["Making It,
Yours"](/articles/2016-02-26-making-it-yours/), and [We Made It,
Yours](https://medium.com/@McKie/we-made-it-yours-742d5732ca10). We made [a new
logo](https://github.com/dattnetwork/yours/blob/master/build/yours-logo.png).
We made [a new twitter account](https://twitter.com/YoursNetwork). We made [a
sophisticated theory of how the rewards should
work](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16iks2zMTt8H47bzem1WnF-rQQJ4AToX7wTqOvXq9XHU/edit#gid=1219956985).
We bought a new domain name, yours.press. And, of course, we created [a new
repo](https://github.com/dattnetwork/yours) and [a working release
(v0.1.0)](https://github.com/dattnetwork/yours/releases/tag/v0.1.0). [Here's a
video demo of the working product](https://youtu.be/fI4O89CqlNk). Many new
people joined our Slack channel and mailing list throughout the hackathon.

We tried to win the LAUNCH Hackathon with Yours. Unfortunately, during the
first round of judging, my computer had a never-before-seen error that
prevented all networking from working, even local networking, and as such I
wasn't able to load or use the app without rebooting my computer. The error had
nothing to do with the app, but was specific to my computer. Since we only had
4 minutes to demo, I ran out of time to solve my networking issue, and we
weren't able to show the product to the judges. Steven and Anupam did a great
job covering while I tried to fix networking. Unfortunately, the judges had a
hard time understanding the idea and were very skeptical. We were not selected
for a second round of judging.

Regardless, we made a huge amount of progress during the hackathon. During the
first Datt hackathon seven months ago, we did not end the weekend with a
working demo. This time, we did. Furthermore, I think the Yours product idea is
our best product idea to date. The way to look at the distinction between Datt
and Yours is that Datt is the underlying technology for combining content and
payments that can be used by many different products. The goal of the Datt
company is to identify the best product based on the Datt technology. I think
Yours may be that product. As such I think we should continue to develop Yours
alongside Datt. Datt may still have an interface, but it is intended for a
technical or enthusiast audience. Yours is intended for a mainstream,
non-technical audience. In the coming week(s), I will sketch out what I believe
an MVP looks like for both Datt and Yours.
