---
title: "What is Yours?"
author: ryanxcharles
date: 2016-04-19
template: article.jade
---
[Yours](http://www.yours.network) is a way for writers, musicians, and video
producers to earn more money for their content by incentivizing people to pay
for it. Unlike many media companies, Yours is not funded by advertisements.
Yours is funded by people who send payments to creators, with a twist: the
people who make payments, the curators, also earn money if they are good at
curating.

Many content creators are struggling to make ends meet because third-party
advertising is a poor business model. Advertising often irritates consumers and
only provides a small return to creators. Traditional media companies are
suffering, and many small creators don’t earn any revenue at all. What’s needed
is a new model that gives people value for making payments directly to the
creators. Creators should earn more money, and everyone should get more of the
content they want. The model is simple: Pay the curator.

A curator is someone who discovers and highlights the work of a creator. A
newspaper editor is a curator, and so is someone who upvotes content on reddit.
Curators do valuable work by finding gems in the rough, and bringing them to
the attention of others. Curators are willing to pay for good content because
they know they can profit by reselling it. On Yours, anyone can be a curator by
paying both the creator and the other curators who brought this to their
attention. A curator can then earn money by reselling the piece of content and
keeping a portion of the revenue. The creator wins because they get more
revenue. The curator also wins because they profit by bringing more attention
to the creator.

Yours does not need third-party advertisements. Rather than cost people time
with advertisements they don’t want to see, Yours incentivizes people to pay
for content directly by providing them with a profit opportunity. People who
don’t want to pay don’t have to. But if someone believes in a creator, and
wants to bring more attention and more revenue to that creator, they can
curate. Then not only do they help the creator, but they potentially profit
from doing so.

Yours is the result of a community effort to solve the content monetization
problem. Hundreds of people contributed to our solution. The first version will
be launched in May, 2016. To get invited to our early preview, please [sign up
for our mailing list](http://www.yours.network) or [join us on
Slack](https://yours-slackin.herokuapp.com/).

This article was originally published on [The Ryan X. Charles
Times](https://ryanxcharlestimes.com/what-is-yours-fe26b80f4dd8)
