---
title: "Why I'm Sticking With Bitcoin"
author: ryanxcharles
date: 2016-04-03
template: article.jade
---
Since last summer when I announced [Datt](http://datt.co), an in-development
social media platform and application powered by bitcoin, one of the top
questions I’ve been asked is, “why are you using bitcoin?” Last year, this
question often took the form of, “why not use Stripe?” or, “why not make an
altcoin?” Since the rally in ethereum over the past few months, the question
has morphed into “why not use ethereum?” The answer is because Datt only needs
internet money right now, not advanced smart contracts, and switching to
ethereum would incur a large technical and economic cost which would ultimately
not deliver a proportional return. Whereas if we simply prioritize our feature
set, we can and will add advanced smart contracts based on bitcoin when the
time is right.

Ethereum, at a protocol level, is arguably more advanced than bitcoin. Since it
is Turing-complete, it has solved [1] the limitation of the scripting language
built into bitcoin. However, the economy around ethereum is much more limited
than bitcoin, and therefore ethereum is less useful. Because ethereum has a
very different protocol than bitcoin, it is not trivial for bitcoin-supporting
companies to add support for ethereum. Roughly speaking, bitcoin companies have
three options: 1) Increase technical complexity of their platform by adding
ethereum support to their bitcoin support, 2) Drop their assets in the bitcoin
space but keep complexity limited by switching from bitcoin to ethereum, 3)
Solve the hard problems in bitcoin by designing and building complicated
systems.

Some companies will choose Option #1, increasing technical complexity by
supporting both ethereum and bitcoin. This is a mistake. Rather than shaping
their own future, these companies will let their fate be decided by the whims
of speculators and hype. I am bearish on companies that divide their effort
between two conflicting visions of the future. With the exception of exchanges,
they will fail.

Other companies will choose Option #2, dropping assets in the bitcoin space and
supporting ethereum instead. I think this is a valid option for some companies.
If a company never had strong assets in bitcoin, perhaps they can find a new
niche in the ethereum space. They will take a hit by pivoting, but they could
still succeed over the long-term. However, this path is not actually any easier
than the bitcoin path. I predict these companies will ultimately be faced with
the same problem they are facing now — lack of traction. They will still have
to solve hard problems, but at a later date, and with a smaller market.

Option #3 is to solve the hard problems in bitcoin. This is being tackled by
companies like Blockstream, 21, Onename, and OB1. These companies see bitcoin
as the largest and most secure foundation for the future of finance and
information services. When they encounter problems, they solve them by writing
code rather than pivoting to a different platform. This is the path that I am
taking with Datt, with the help of my collaborators. Since the bitcoin block
size is limited and has recently caused transaction fees to rise, [we have
started implementing a solution based on payment
channels](https://github.com/dattnetwork/fullnode-pc). Pivoting to ethereum
wouldn’t eliminate problems for Datt — it would just create new and different
problems, and delay our success.

The most useful, important, and revolutionary application of blockchain
technology is internet money. Satoshi had the right goal and made the right
economic decisions when designing bitcoin, in particular being limited in
quantity to 21 million. The incentives encourage global adoption of bitcoin
over the long-term. It will not be possible for ethereum or other platforms to
outcompete bitcoin at its core value proposition. Datt, like our older cousins
in the space, see an opportunity to service an enormous future market based on
bitcoin, not by waiting for other people to solve the hard problems for us, but
by solving them ourselves.

[1] I haven’t studied ethereum in detail at a technical level, so I take
ethereum developers at their word that they have solved the Turing-completeness
problem correctly. However, I suspect that there are many other less obvious
problems around scaling and ecosystem that will need to be solved, just as with
bitcoin. And since bitcoin has a larger economy and a longer head start on
solving these problems, I am not convinced that ethereum, at an ecosystem
level, is more advanced than bitcoin or will be able to outpace it.

This article was originally published on [The Ryan X. Charles
Times](https://ryanxcharlestimes.com/why-i-m-sticking-with-bitcoin-f718cd3519c0)
