I had the chance a few days ago to come across your paper on Medium. Very
interesting and daring, I have to admit.

At this point, I imagine a few people already wrote to you and some might
already have projects that are in beta testing or close to. That’s cool,
because my idea is basically a marketing “twist” that could totally fit into an
existing project – especially considering how competitive the field of
user-based new aggregation is about to become in the next months. How do we
attract people? No. How do we attract the smartest, and coolest ones? The soul
of Reddit - if Reddit still have a soul.

Basically, the project would be a kind of elite Reddit, which would focus on
constructive, intellectual, and geeky content, as well as promoting rad,
libertarian & emerging concepts/trends.

1) The platform would break away from the usual dumb, buzzfeedesque, content we
find on default subreddits (and which is seen by most visitors and bores
everyone I know, including myself) and would rather be an elite Reddit, that
focus exclusively on rad politics, futurology, entrepreneurship, emerging
concepts, trends and technology and of course improving your life/expanding
your knowledge. Something like a Reddit for smart people, a “geekier” Reddit.
So, absolutely no r/AdviceAnimals, r/pics, r/aww, r/funny.  Anyway, the web is
already 95% made of dumb crap.

Basically, we will create something that will most likely only attract the best
and the brightest individuals. The put it simply, we shall be the hub where the
most radical discussions and ideas are shared. An openly elitist institution.
All the rest can stay on Reddit….

2) The platform would also integrate two subjective systems to make the
frontpage more interesting than simple upvote/downvote ratios: first, a system
of content editors (that users can follow/anyone can be an editor) and a system
of archivists (elected every x months/who pick relevant content that would
still be relevant 4-5-6 months later); this selected content would serve to
increase the quality of frontpage.

3) The platform would finally be used for politico-economic goals:

A) Promoting libertarian ideas and related trends (crypto-anarchy,
crypto-currencies, decentralization, digital nomadism, competitive governance,
agorism, etc.)

B) Building up competitive governance spaces (Seasteading, digital-freelancers
cooperatives – I wrote a paper on that topic. This is articles is not
particularly good or accurate, but whatever:
http://motherboard.vice.com/read/these-guys-want-to-build-a-techno-utopia-for-freelancers-in-the-canadian-woods).

C) Increasing visibility of collaborative projects: arts, magazine, software,
etc.

D) Being really interested by Nootropics, I would love to use such platform to
fund and crowdfund studies on new supplements or molecules that can enhance
cognition and memory. Considering the amount of users of r/nootropics and the
Longecity forum (that are highly interested in promoting the idea of smart
drugs) we would use this as a migration strategy to attract them on our
platform. Basically, promoting “smart content”, and branding ourselves as a
“smart Reddit’ should work just perfectly for attracting exactly the kind of
users we want.
