---
title: "Why \"Datt\" is Rebranding to \"Yours\""
author: ryanxcharles
date: 2016-04-17
template: article.jade
---
Datt was launched last summer when I wrote a popular article, “[Fix reddit with
bitcoin](https://ryanxcharlestimes.com/fix-reddit-with-bitcoin-7da3f85fb9ba),”
and I decided to form a company around the idea. One of the first things I had
to do was find a name. After a bit of brainstorming, I thought the
“decentralize all the things” meme captured the essence of the project. I
converted this to a word, “Datt”, and everybody seemed to like it. The only
problem is that my network was heavily biased in favor of the bitcoin
community, and whenever I tried to pitch my idea to people outside that
community, they didn’t get the joke. The name “Datt” became a barrier to
gathering the mainstream audience I originally envisioned.

On the basis of recommendations from people more experienced at business than
myself, I decided to come up with a more mainstream name. At first I limited
myself to what domain names were available, and the best I could come up with
was “Gild Forge”. No one liked that one. Finally, before the LAUNCH Hackathon
in February, I brainstormed names again, this time unconstrained by whether the
domain name was available or not. One name stood
out — “[Yours](http://www.yours.network/)”.

What would you call a social network where you owned your content? Where your
work was correctly attributed to you? Where you got paid for the work that you
did? Where you were in control? Clearly, this network is Yours. “Yours” fully
captures the essence of what we are trying to achieve, both more accurately
than “Datt”, and in a way that can be understood by anyone. It facilitates,
rather than hinders, adoption by a mainstream audience. If it belongs to you,
it’s Yours. Even children can understand this concept.

I wanted to salvage “Datt”. I think it’s a cool name, and I think it captures
the project’s roots better than “Yours”. One way to do this would be to keep
the name of the software project the same. Perhaps “Datt” is just the name of
the npm module and software repository. However, I think that would be too
unfocused. I don’t want to have to divide my effort explaining to people what
“Datt” is if it is doesn’t facilitate the mission. Thus, the best name for the
npm module and software repository is “Yours Core”, not “Datt”. “Datt” is best
considered a code name—it’s the top-secret, mysterious, and fun placeholder
name before finding “Yours”.

I’ve been a member of the bitcoin community for almost five years. I have
watched many companies come and go in that time, and one mistake many companies
have made is to not solve a problem for anybody who isn’t already a bitcoin
user. Such companies have assumed bitcoin would naturally achieve mainstream
appeal, and as it did, their niche would grow. This strategy is a mistake,
because it leaves their fate in the hands of forces outside of their control.
The best way to make bitcoin mainstream is to make a company mainstream that
uses bitcoin as a part of its tech stack. That is the Yours strategy.

This article was originally published on [The Ryan X. Charles
Times](https://ryanxcharlestimes.com/why-datt-is-rebranding-to-yours-53835649d33)
