---
title: "How to Monetize Internet Memes"
author: ryanxcharles
date: 2016-03-24
template: article.jade
---
What if you could be paid a million dollars for creating a viral internet meme?
People who are good at creating viral content, the type of content that brings
value to huge numbers of people, would be able to quit their jobs and do what
they love, and consumers would get more, and better, of the type of content
they want. It sounds wonderful, but there is a problem: people don’t like to
pay for stuff they can get for free. So how can we encourage people to pay for
internet memes?

The answer is to financially incentivize payments. What if you could invest in
an internet meme? Each investment would pay both the original author and one
earlier investor. Investors aren’t just tipping the original author — they are
making an investment that may pay back more than they put in. If the meme takes
off, an investor may profit significantly. If the meme doesn’t take off, then
the investor may not profit, but at least they’ve still paid something to the
creator of content they like.

A few weeks ago my collaborators and I built a product that does this:
[Yours](http://www.yours.network).  The mission of Yours is to solve the
incentives problem of social media. We want to make it possible for content
creators to get paid, and to do so, we want to make it profitable to pay them.
This aligns the incentives of everyone who uses Yours. Not only do content
creators get paid for producing good content, but people who are good at
curating (the “investors”), also get paid.  Of course, not everyone will
profit — people who are not very good at creating content won’t get paid much,
and people who aren’t very good at curating may lose what they put in. But this
is exactly how it should be: The people creating and curating valuable content
profit, and the people creating and curating content that isn’t valuable either
don’t get paid or lose money. The right behavior is encouraged — good content
wins.

It would be technically easy to build Yours with a dependency on the legacy
financial system. However, it would be socially difficult to convince third
party banks and regulators to let us run this experiment. After having worked
in the modern fintech movement and watched many companies struggle to convince
banks and regulators to approve their products, I don’t think we would get
permission from banks or the regulators in a timely or cost effective manner.
Fortunately, we now have bitcoin — the permissionless financial system. We
don’t have to get anyone’s permission launch Yours.

The permissionless approach is socially easier, but it is technically harder.
While we will be able to launch the MVP of Yours soon, reaching the long-term
potential of bitcoin micropayments in Yours will require that we write a lot
more software. Most significantly, we need to add payment channels, a
hub-and-spoke payment system, and ultimately the lightning network. We already
have [our own implementation of
bitcoin](https://github.com/dattnetwork/fullnode), but the next steps will
require many thousands of lines more of cryptographically delicate code. It
won’t be easy. If you would like to help, please join the [Datt
project](http://datt.co/). Our platform is open-source.

The big picture of content monetization on the internet is bright. Not only
will pleasurable content like puppy pics be profitable, but educational videos,
scientific research, and product designs for 3D printers will all be
profitable. The way the world works will change — bitcoin micropayments on the
internet enables the birth of the information economy, a social improvement
comparable to, but greater than, the transition to the industrial age. The full
potential is incomprehensibly large and positive.

This article was originally published on [The Ryan X. Charles
Times](https://ryanxcharlestimes.com/how-to-monetize-internet-memes-bc6fb5ca5b4d).
